= gettext_rails

gettext_rails provides the localization for Ruby on Rails-2.3 or later
using Ruby-GetText-Package.

* Autodetect client locale using locale/locale_rails.
* Easy maintainance of translations to use powerful tools for gettext family.
* Model translation using gettext_activerecord.
* Localization for some helpers.
* Works with other Rails I18n backend.
  * Note that gettext_rails is not the one of I18n backend.
* Thread safe.

== Website
* homepage[http://www.yotabanana.com/hiki/ruby-gettext.html]
* on rubyforge[http://gettext/rubyforge.org/]
* on github[http://github.com/mutoh/gettext_rails/tree/master]

== Requirements
* {Ruby 1.8.3 or later}[http://www.ruby-lang.org]
* {Rubygems}[http://www.rubygems.org/]
* {locale gem}[http://rubyforge.org/projects/locale/]
* {locale_rails gem}[http://rubyforge.org/projects/locale_rails/]
* {gettext gem}[http://rubyforge.org/projects/gettext/]
* {gettext_activerecord gem}[http://rubyforge.org/projects/gettext/]
* {gettext_rails gem}[http://rubyforge.org/projects/gettext/]

== Install
    #Uninstall old gettext if exists.
    (sudo/su on POSIX system)
    gem uninstall gettext

    #from github (edge/unstable)  (not supported yet)
    (sudo/su on POSIX system)
    #gem install mutoh-gettext_rails -s http://gems.github.com/

    #from rubyforge (stable)
    (sudo/su on POSIX system)
    gem install gettext_rails

== Usage
See sample direcotries for more details.

==== Rakefile
  require 'rubygems'
  
  desc "Create mo files"
  task :makemo do
    require 'gettext_rails/tools'
    GetText.create_mofiles
  end
  
  task :updatepo do
    require 'gettext_rails/tools'
    # Need to access DB to find Model table/column names.
    # Use config/database.yml which is the same style with rails.
    GetText.update_pofiles("sample_rails", ["topic.rb"], "sample_rails 1.0.0")
  end

==== config/environment.rb
  Rails::Initializer.run do |config|
    :
    :
    config.gem "locale"
    config.gem "locale_rails"
    config.gem "gettext"
    config.gem "gettext_activerecord"
    config.gem "gettext_rails"
  end

==== application_controller.rb   
  class ApplicationController < ActionController::Base
    init_gettext "blog"  # replace "blog" to your textdomain name.
  end

==== Then ...
  $ rake updatepo
  $ cd po
  $ mkdir ja
  $ msginit -l ja_JP.UTF-8 -i blog.pot -o ja/sample.po
  $ Edit ja/sample.po
  $ cd ../../
  $ rake makemo
  $ ruby sample.rb

See {Ruby-GetText-Package HOWTO for Ruby on Rails}[http://www.yotabanana.com/hiki/ruby-gettext-howto-rails.html] for more details.

== Support matrix
* gettext_rails-2.0.2 - rails-2.3.2
* gettext_rails-2.0.1 - rails-2.3.2
* gettext_rails-2.0.0 - rails-2.3.2

== License
This program is licenced under the same licence as Ruby.
(See the file 'COPYING'.)

* Copyright (C) 2001-2009 Masao Mutoh <mutoh at highwhay.ne.jp>

== Translators
* Bosnian(bs)                - Sanjin Sehic <saserr at gmail.com>
* Bulgarian(bg)              - Sava Chankov <sava.chankov at gmail.com>
* Catalan(ca)                - Ramon Salvadó <rsalvado at gnuine.com>
* Chinese(Simplified)(zh_CN)
  * Yang Bob <bob.yang.dev at gmail.com> (current)
  * Yingfeng <blogyingfeng at gmail.com>
* Chinese(Traditional)(zh_TW)
  * Yang Bob <bob.yang.dev at gmail.com> (current)
  * LIN CHUNG-YI <xmarsh at gmail.com>
* Croatian(hr)               - Sanjin Sehic <saserr at gmail.com>
* Czech(cs)                  - Karel Miarka <kajism at yahoo.com>
* Dutch(nl)                  - Bart ten Brinke<info at retrosync.com> (current)
                               Menno Jonkers <ruby-gettext at jonkers.com>
* Esperanto(eo)              - Malte Milatz <malte at gmx-topmail.de>
* Estonian(et)               - Erkki Eilonen <erkki at itech.ee>
* French(fr)
  * Vincent Isambart <vincent.isambart at gmail.com> (current)
  * David Sulc <davidsulc at gmail.com>
  * David Sulc <davidsulc at gmail.com>
  * Laurent Sansonetti <laurent.sansonetti at gmail.com>
* German(de)
  * Patrick Lenz <patrick at limited-overload.de> (current)
  * Detlef Reichl <detlef.reichl at gmx.org>
  * Sven Herzberg <herzi at abi02.de>
  * Sascha Ebach <se at digitale-wertschoepfung.de>
* Greek(el)                  - Vassilis Rizopoulos <damphyr at gmx.net>
* Hungarian(hu)              - Tamás Tompa <tompata at gmail.com>
* Italian(it)
  * Marco Lazzeri <marco.lazzeri at gmail.com>
  * Gabriele Renzi <surrender_it at yahoo.it>
* Japanese(ja)               - Masao Mutoh <mutomasa at gmail.com>
* Korean(ko)                 - Gyoung-Yoon Noh <nohmad at gmail.com>
* Latvian(lv)                - Aivars Akots <aivars.akots at gmail.com>
* Norwegian(nb)              - Runar Ingebrigtsen <runar at mopo.no>
* Portuguese(Brazil)(pt_BR)
  * Antonio S. de A. Terceiro <terceiro at softwarelivre.org> (current)
  * Joao Pedrosa <joaopedrosa at gmail.com>
* Russian(ru)                - Yuri Kozlov <kozlov.y at gmail.com>
* Serbian(sr)                - Slobodan Paunović" <slobodan.paunovic at gmail.com>
* Spanish(es)
  * David Espada <davinci at escomposlinux.org> (current)
  * David Moreno Garza <damog at damog.net>
* Ukrainian(ua)              - Alex Rootoff <rootoff at pisem.net>
* Vietnamese(vi)             - Ngoc Dao Thanh <ngocdaothanh at gmail.com>

== Status of translations
* Bosnian(bs)               - 1.90.0 (old)
* Bulgarian(bg)             - 2.0.0 
* Catalan(ca)               - 2.0.0
* Croatian(hr)              - 1.90.0 (old)
* Chinese(zh_CN)            - 2.0.0
* Chinese(zh_TW)            - 2.0.0
* Czech(cs)                 - 1.9.0 (old)
* Dutch(nl)                 - 2.0.2
* English(default)          - 1.90.0 (old)
* Esperanto(eo)             - 2.0.0
* Estonian(et)              - 2.0.0
* French(fr)                - 2.0.0
* German(de)                - 2.0.0
* Greek(el)                 - 2.0.0
* Hungarian(hu)             - 2.0.0
* Italian(it)               - 1.6.0 (old)
* Japanese(ja)              - 2.0.2
* Korean(ko)                - 1.9.0 (old)
* Latvian(lv)               - 2.0.0 
* Norwegian(nb)             - 2.0.0
* Portuguese(Brazil)(pt_BR) - 2.0.0
* Russian(ru)               - 2.0.0
* Serbian(sr)               - 1.91.0 (old)
* Spanish(es)               - 2.0.0
* Ukrainian(ua)             - 2.0.0
* Vietnamese(vi)            - 2.0.0

== Maintainer
Masao Mutoh <mutomasa at gmail.com>
